---
layout: post
title: "Adopted Children"
date: 2013-02-10 14:55
comments: false
categories: [Spiritual, Bible]
---
I've continued thinking about Bible class this morning, about being a child of God and about God being our Father.  One thing in particular struck me, was Christians are **adopted children** and  the Lord Jesus is God's only child.  One well-known Bible verse states it clearly: **(John 3:16)** *"For God so loved the world, that He gave His only Son..."*  God's only son was Jesus, yet we are God's children too, children by way of adoption...

What then are the differences between a child of adoption and a child given through the natural process?  Planning maybe?  Parents can be said to *"plan for children"*, but is planning to be a parent unique to having a child the natural way or through adoption?  We read in scripture, where God planned both the earthly life of Jesus (His only Son) and us (His adopted children).  Peter writes **(1 Peter 1:20)** that Jesus was "foreknown before the foundation of the world but was man manifest in the last times for the sake of you", if He was *"foreknown"* then we can conclude He was planned, and God planned to make Him known.  Similarly God planned for us to be His children, Paul writes in **(Ephesians 1:4)** that God *"chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before Him.  In love he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ"*.  So we see that *God predestined us for adoption*, like Jesus we too were planned for by God.  So from this logic we can conclude that planning for children is neither unique to an adopted child, nor a natural one, both require planning on behalf of our Father.

So I continued to think about the difference, what then is unique to being adopted children?  Now let me confess before I'm in too deep, that I've got zero experience with adopting children so admittedly I know zilch about *"real adoption"*.  However I was drawn to a thought I believe *is* unique to *adopted children*...When a child is born unto a family many things are said about that child and the birth process.  We realize the child is a blessing from God and that we are borrowing he or she for a short time while we're on this Earth.  We come face to face with God's wonderful design of life and I hazard to guess many people come to see and recognize God when they witness a child being born.  However I don't imagine very many people think during that process they've *"rescued"* a child from anything...ok ok maybe rescued from the mothers womb but thats a given, what I mean is rescued from another situation, a situation less than appealing.  When parents adopt they take children away from a prior place and bring them to a new place.  Simple observation...I mean when adoption takes place typically if not always it results in children being given a new home, away from their previous one.  But more than just a new home I think its fair to conclude in many cases the child is *rescued* from their current situation and given a new start with their adopted parents.  I submit this idea as being unique to adopted children and unique to our position as children of God!

As adopted children of God we are rescued from our prior sinful life and given a new life with our Father.  And although our prior life may have felt good at times, it was a life with a dead-end road, a life which ended in death.  God being rich in mercy rescued us from sin and death and has given unto us a life which never ends...Like all adoptions this one had a cost associated with it, a cost so high that it could only be paid by someone rich but God doesn't take money as payment, rather he takes sacrifice and not just any sacrifice but one rich in holiness.

